<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# terraform-azurerm-avm-res-network-serviceendpointpolicy

This is an Azure Verified Module for Azure Service Endpoint Policies.

## Overview

Service Endpoint Policies provide granular control over virtual network traffic to Azure services. This module creates and manages Azure Service Endpoint Policies using the AzAPI provider for direct ARM API access.

## Key Features

- **Dynamic Service Support**: Configure policies for multiple Azure services (Storage, SQL, Cosmos DB, Key Vault, Service Bus, Event Hub)
- **Service Aliases**: Support for managed service aliases (Managed Instance, Machine Learning, Databricks)
- **Contextual Policies**: Link policies to other resources for advanced scenarios
- **Transparent Body Construction**: The `computed_body` output shows exactly what JSON is sent to Azure
- **AVM Compliant**: Follows all Azure Verified Module standards

## Inspecting the Policy Body

To see the exact JSON body being sent to the Azure API, use the `computed_body` output:

```hcl
output "policy_body" {
  value = module.service_endpoint_policy.computed_body
}
```

This output decodes the internal JSON structure and shows:
- All policy definitions with their services and service resources
- Service alias (if configured)
- Contextual service endpoint policies (if configured)

This transparency helps with debugging, auditing, and understanding exactly what the module creates.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.4)

- <a name="requirement_azurerm"></a> [azurerm](#requirement\_azurerm) (~> 4.0)

- <a name="requirement_modtm"></a> [modtm](#requirement\_modtm) (~> 0.3)

- <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) (~> 3.5)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.service_endpoint_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azurerm_management_lock.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/management_lock) (resource)
- [azurerm_role_assignment.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/role_assignment) (resource)
- [modtm_telemetry.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/resources/telemetry) (resource)
- [random_uuid.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/uuid) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [azapi_client_config.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [modtm_module_source.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/data-sources/module_source) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region where the resource should be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of the Service Endpoint Policy resource.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_resource_group_name"></a> [resource\_group\_name](#input\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: The resource group where the resources will be deployed.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_enable_telemetry"></a> [enable\_telemetry](#input\_enable\_telemetry)

Description: This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module.  
For more information see <https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo>.  
If it is set to false, then no telemetry will be collected.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_lock"></a> [lock](#input\_lock)

Description: Controls the Resource Lock configuration for this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `\"CanNotDelete\"` and `\"ReadOnly\"`.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    kind = string
    name = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_policy_definitions"></a> [policy\_definitions](#input\_policy\_definitions)

Description: A map of policy definitions for the Service Endpoint Policy. Each definition specifies which Azure service resources are allowed. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `service` - (Optional) The service for the policy definition. Defaults to `Microsoft.Storage`.
- `service_resources` - (Required) A list of Azure Resource Manager IDs of the resources that this policy applies to. Can specify:
  - Individual storage accounts: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/{storageAccountName}`
  - All storage accounts in a resource group: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}`
  - All storage accounts in a subscription: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}`

Example:
```terraform
policy_definitions = {
  allow-prod-storage = {
    service     = "Microsoft.Storage"
    service_resources = [
      "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg-avm/providers/Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/mystorageaccount"
    ]
  }
}
```

Type:

```hcl
list(object({
    name              = string
    service           = optional(string, "Microsoft.Storage")
    service_resources = list(string)
  }))
```

Default: `[]`

### <a name="input_role_assignments"></a> [role\_assignments](#input\_role\_assignments)

Description: A map of role assignments to create on this resource. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
- `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
- `description` - The description of the role assignment.
- `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - If set to true, skips the Azure Active Directory check for the service principal in the tenant. Defaults to false.
- `condition` - The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
- `condition_version` - The version of the condition syntax. Valid values are '2.0'.
- `delegated_managed_identity_resource_id` - The delegated Azure Resource Id which contains a Managed Identity. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.
- `principal_type` - The type of the principal\_id. Possible values are `User`, `Group` and `ServicePrincipal`. Changing this forces a new resource to be created. It is necessary to explicitly set this attribute when creating role assignments if the principal creating the assignment is constrained by ABAC rules that filters on the PrincipalType attribute.

> Note: only set `skip_service_principal_aad_check` to true if you are assigning a role to a service principal.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    role_definition_id_or_name             = string
    principal_id                           = string
    description                            = optional(string, null)
    skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
    condition                              = optional(string, null)
    condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
    delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_service_alias"></a> [service\_alias](#input\_service\_alias)

Description: A list of service aliases indicating if the policy belongs to managed services.

Common service aliases:
- `/services/Azure/ManagedInstance` - For Azure SQL Managed Instance
- `/services/Azure/MachineLearning` - For Azure Machine Learning
- `/services/Azure/Databricks` - For Azure Databricks

Example:
```terraform
service_alias = ["/services/Azure/ManagedInstance", "/services/Azure/MachineLearning"]
```

Type: `list(string)`

Default: `[]`

### <a name="input_subscription_id"></a> [subscription\_id](#input\_subscription\_id)

Description: (Optional) This specifies a subscription ID which is used to construct the parent ID for the maintenance configuration.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags of the resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: The name of the Service Endpoint Policy.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: The Azure Resource ID of the Service Endpoint Policy.

### <a name="output_service_endpoint_policy_definitions"></a> [service\_endpoint\_policy\_definitions](#output\_service\_endpoint\_policy\_definitions)

Description: All policy definitions on the Service Endpoint Policy.

## Modules

No modules.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->